docs/guides/how-to-play-mod.en.md, before:

# Installing Mods

## Downloading ModShardLauncher

In order to install mods, you will require the **ModShardLauncher**. </br>
You can grab it on **Github** by clicking the button below. </br>


[ModShardLauncher :octicons-link-external-16:](https://github.com/DDDDDragon/ModShardLauncher/releases){ .md-button .md-button--primary}&emsp;

Make sure you download the `msl.zip` file, and ^^**not the source code**^^. </br>
<div style="color:Gray">
Alternatively, you can build ModShardLauncher from source, but it's out of this guide's scope.
</div>

If launching MSL opens a console and closes immediately, you may require the **.NET Desktop Runtime 6.0**

[.NET Desktop Runtime 6.0 :octicons-link-external-16:](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/6.0){ .md-button .md-button--primary}&emsp;

---

## ModShardLauncher Setup

???+ warning "IMPORTANT - Installing after RtR"
    Make sure you are on the `modbranch` beta of Stoneshard on Steam before proceeding below. </br>
    When launching the game, the version at the top right should say `X.X.X.X-vm`. </br>

    Here's how to do it : </br>
    - Right click on Stoneshard in your library on steam. </br>
    - Click `Properties`. </br>
    - Go in the `Betas` tab. </br>
    - Select the `modbranch` beta. </br>
    - Steam will now update your game files, when it's done, proceed below.

- **Extract** `ModShardLauncher.zip` anywhere.
- **Rename** `data.win` to `vanilla.win`  in your Stoneshard folder.
- **Run** `ModShardLauncher.exe`.

---

## UI Tour

Let's take a quick tour of the UI to better know MSL. </br></br>

<center> ![Main Menu](../img/tool_UI.png){: style="width:50%"} </center>

<center style="color:Gray">
The button on the top left of the window shows the button's name. </br></br>
The `Anvil` button below that leads to the `Mods` menu. (***^^This is the only menu you will need^^***.) </br></br>
The `C#` button leads to the `Mod Sources` menu. (*It's used by modders to create their mods*.) </br></br>
The `Cog` button leads to the `Settings` menu. (*It's used for some settings you probably won't need*.) </br></br>
</center>

---

## Installing a Mod

Now that we've got MSL running, let's install some mods. </br>
Here's an [example video showing the installation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_J0oJYGi38E&t=13s) of [NeoConsole](https://github.com/Nylux/Stoneshard-NeoConsole/releases). (*enable the subtitles !*) </br> </br>
Note: It's a bit outdated, but the process is pretty much the same, a new video will be made at some point. </br>

???+ warning "MAKE SURE YOU ARE ON THE MODBRANCH BETA OF STONESHARD ON STEAM"

- Close MSL.
- Download your mod's `.sml` file.
- Place the `.sml` file in MSL's `Mods` folder.
- Start MSL.
- Click on the **anvil button** to open the `Mods` menu.
- At the top left of the window, click on the **folder button**.
- Select the `vanilla.win` file in the `Stoneshard` folder
- In the `Mods` menu, **tick the box** next to the mods you wish to enable.
- Click on the **save button** and save under any name (eg. `modded.win`)
- Close MSL.
- Start **Stoneshard**. It should ask you to select a `.win` file.
- Select the `modded.win` file and enjoy your mods !

</br></br>

Commit message:

Add Linux setup instructions for using ModShardLauncher
Introduce instructions for configuring ModShardLauncher on Linux using Bottles. Also include details on prerequisites, environment setup, and troubleshooting permission issues. Add an accompanying image for better clarity.

docs/guides/how-to-play-mod.en.md, after:

# Installing Mods

## Downloading ModShardLauncher

In order to install mods, you will require the **ModShardLauncher**. </br>
You can grab it on **Github** by clicking the button below. </br>


[ModShardLauncher :octicons-link-external-16:](https://github.com/DDDDDragon/ModShardLauncher/releases){ .md-button .md-button--primary}&emsp;

Make sure you download the `msl.zip` file, and ^^**not the source code**^^. </br>
<div style="color:Gray">
Alternatively, you can build ModShardLauncher from source, but it's out of this guide's scope.
</div>

If launching MSL opens a console and closes immediately, you may require the **.NET Desktop Runtime 6.0**

[.NET Desktop Runtime 6.0 :octicons-link-external-16:](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/6.0){ .md-button .md-button--primary}&emsp;

---

## Linux setup instructions

### Pre-requisites

- ***Bottles*** - https://usebottles.com/
- ***Stoneshard*** - The Windows version of Stoneshard must be used as the native Linux version is bundled differently

### Steps
1. Create a Bottle environment for gaming

![linux_bottle_1.png](../img/linux_bottle_1.png)
2. Open the newly created bottle and click "Add Shortcut" and browse to then select the `ModShardLauncher.exe`
3. Modify the newly added item by clicking the three dot menu and going to "Change Launch Options".
The working directory must be updated to the directory that `ModShardLauncher.exe` resides in.
4. The bottle settings need to be updated to support the .NET environment. This can be found below the "Add Shortcut"
button, select "Settings" and then "Environment Variables". A new variable needs to be added to handle the
extraction location `DOTNET_BUNDLE_EXTRACT_BASE_DIR=Z:\home\{user}\dotnet_bundle_extract`, update this to a path of your choosing.

*If you run into file permission issues with Bottles this is due to it running in a flatpak.
I suggest using [Flatseal](https://flathub.org/apps/com.github.tchx84.Flatseal) to give Bottles access to the required paths.*
---

## ModShardLauncher Setup

???+ warning "IMPORTANT - Installing after RtR"
    Make sure you are on the `modbranch` beta of Stoneshard on Steam before proceeding below. </br>
    When launching the game, the version at the top right should say `X.X.X.X-vm`. </br>

    Here's how to do it : </br>
    - Right click on Stoneshard in your library on steam. </br>
    - Click `Properties`. </br>
    - Go in the `Betas` tab. </br>
    - Select the `modbranch` beta. </br>
    - Steam will now update your game files, when it's done, proceed below.

- **Extract** `ModShardLauncher.zip` anywhere.
- **Rename** `data.win` to `vanilla.win`  in your Stoneshard folder.
- **Run** `ModShardLauncher.exe`.

---

## UI Tour

Let's take a quick tour of the UI to better know MSL. </br></br>

<center> ![Main Menu](../img/tool_UI.png){: style="width:50%"} </center>

<center style="color:Gray">
The button on the top left of the window shows the button's name. </br></br>
The `Anvil` button below that leads to the `Mods` menu. (***^^This is the only menu you will need^^***.) </br></br>
The `C#` button leads to the `Mod Sources` menu. (*It's used by modders to create their mods*.) </br></br>
The `Cog` button leads to the `Settings` menu. (*It's used for some settings you probably won't need*.) </br></br>
</center>

---

## Installing a Mod

Now that we've got MSL running, let's install some mods. </br>
Here's an [example video showing the installation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_J0oJYGi38E&t=13s) of [NeoConsole](https://github.com/Nylux/Stoneshard-NeoConsole/releases). (*enable the subtitles !*) </br> </br>
Note: It's a bit outdated, but the process is pretty much the same, a new video will be made at some point. </br>

???+ warning "MAKE SURE YOU ARE ON THE MODBRANCH BETA OF STONESHARD ON STEAM"

- Close MSL.
- Download your mod's `.sml` file.
- Place the `.sml` file in MSL's `Mods` folder.
- Start MSL.
- Click on the **anvil button** to open the `Mods` menu.
- At the top left of the window, click on the **folder button**.
- Select the `vanilla.win` file in the `Stoneshard` folder
- In the `Mods` menu, **tick the box** next to the mods you wish to enable.
- Click on the **save button** and save under any name (eg. `modded.win`)
- Close MSL.
- Start **Stoneshard**. It should ask you to select a `.win` file.
- Select the `modded.win` file and enjoy your mods !

</br></br>
